Listview/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: ListView Getting Started
position: 2
---

# ListView: Getting Started

This quick start tutorial demonstrates how to create a simple iOS application with <code>TKListView</code>.



## Prerequisites

In order to start using <code>TKListView</code>, you have first to install the latest version Telerik UI for iOS. You can download it from: [http://www.telerik.com/download/ios-ui](http://www.telerik.com/download/ios-ui). The file that you should download is the installation package - Telerik UI for iOS.pkg. Just double click the package icon and the installer will guide you trough the installation process. When done, it will open the newly created folder in your Documents folder. This folder contains everything necessary in order to start using <code>TKListView</code>.

<img src="../images/chart-overview003.png"/>

## Setting up the project

After installing Telerik UI, you can proceed with the following steps:

<ol>
    <li>Open Xcode and choose <i>"Create a new Xcode project"</i>.</li>
    <li>Choose <i>"Single View Application"</i> from the <i>"Choose a template for your new project"</i> dialog.</li>
    <li>Give your project a name and click <i>Next</i>.</li>
    <li>Complete the process of creating a project by specifying the location for your project and clicking <i>Create</i>.</li>
    <li>Scroll down to the <i>Linked Frameworks and Libraries</i> section in your project settings and click on the <i>"+"</i> button. <br/>
    <img src="../images/chart-overview004.png"/></li>
    <li>Type <i>telerik</i> in the popup, select the <i>TelerikUI.framework</i> and click <i>Add</i>. <br/>
    <img src="../images/chart-overview005.png"/></li>
    <li>This is it, now you are ready to start working with Telerik Chart.</li>
</ol>

## Setting up TKListView

Now that our project is created and the TelerikUI.framework is added, we can start referencing and using the TelerikUI types:

Open your <code>ViewController.m</code> file and add a reference to Telerik UI header file:

    #import <TelerikUI/TelerikUI.h>

If you are writing Swift, add the same line in your bridging header.

In the <code>viewDidLoad</code> method of your view controller prepare a small array of sample data to be presented in <code>TKListView</code>. 

```Objective-C
[super viewDidLoad];

_sampleArrayOfStrings =@[@"Kristina Wolfe",@"Freda Curtis",@"Jeffery Francis",@"Eva Lawson",@"Emmett Santos", @"Theresa	Bryan", @"Jenny Fuller", @"Terrell Norris", @"Eric Wheeler", @"Julius Clayton", @"Alfredo Thornton", @"Roberto Romero",@"Orlando Mathis",@"Eduardo Thomas",@"Harry Douglas"];
    
```
```Swift
super.viewDidLoad()

self.sampleArrayOfStrings = ["Kristina Wolfe","Freda Curtis","Jeffery Francis","Eva Lawson","Emmett Santos", "Theresa Bryan", "Jenny Fuller", "Terrell Norris", "Eric Wheeler", "Julius Clayton", "Alfredo Thornton", "Roberto Romero","Orlando Mathis","Eduardo Thomas","Harry Douglas"]
        
```
```C#
base.ViewDidLoad();

NSString[] simpleArrayOfStrings = new NSString[] { new NSString("Kristina Wolfe"),
	new NSString("Freda Curtis"),
	new NSString("Jeffery Francis"),
	new NSString("Eva Lawson"),
	new NSString("Emmett Santos"), 
	new NSString("Theresa Bryan"), 
	new NSString("Jenny Fuller"), 
	new NSString("Terrell Norris"),
	new NSString("Eric Wheeler"), 
	new NSString("Julius Clayton"), 
	new NSString("Alfredo Thornton"), 
	new NSString("Roberto Romero"),
	new NSString("Orlando Mathis"),
	new NSString("Eduardo Thomas"),
	new NSString("Harry Douglas")
};
			
```

Next, create an instance of [<code>TKDataSource<code>](../datasource/getting-started). This components is used to feed our data to <code>TKListView</code>. 

```Objective-C
_dataSource = [[TKDataSource alloc] initWithArray:_sampleArrayOfStrings];
```
```Swift
dataSource = TKDataSource(array:sampleArrayOfStrings)
```
```C#
TKDataSource dataSource = new TKDataSource(simpleArrayOfStrings);
```

Then create a new instance of <code>TKListView</code> and add it as a subview of the ViewController's main view. The <code>autoresizingMask</code> property is set in order to allow correct resizing of the list view when the device is rotated in landscape mode. 

```Objective-C
TKListView *_listView = [[TKListView alloc] initWithFrame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40)];
_listView.autoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleHeight;
_listView.dataSource = _dataSource;
[self.view addSubview:_listView];
```
```Swift
let listView = TKListView(frame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40))
listView.dataSource = dataSource
self.view.addSubview(listView)
```
```C#
listView.Frame = new CGRect (20, 20, this.View.Bounds.Size.Width-40,this.View.Bounds.Size.Height-40);
this.listView.AutoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleHeight;
this.listView.WeakDataSource = dataSource;
this.View.AddSubview(this.listView);			
```

So far we have got the following view: 

<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted001.png"/>

Now lets enable multiple selection: 

```Objective-C
_listView.allowsMultipleSelection = YES;
```
```Swift
listView.allowsMultipleSelection = true
```
```C#
this.listView.AllowsMultipleSelection = true;
```

To see the result, after running this sample, select to select a few items:
<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted002.png"/>


Adding a single line of code should allow the user to reorder items by dragging a handle.

```Objective-C
_listView.allowsCellReorder = YES;
```
```Swift
listView.allowsCellReorder = true;
```
```C#
this.listView.AllowsCellReorder = true;
```

<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted003.png"/>

And here is the full code of our view controller 

```Objective-C
#import "ViewController.h"
#import <TelerikUI/TelerikUI.h>

@implementation ViewController
{
    NSArray *_sampleArrayOfStrings;
    TKDataSource *_dataSource;
}
- (void)viewDidLoad
{
    [super viewDidLoad];
    
    _sampleArrayOfStrings =@[@"Kristina Wolfe",@"Freda Curtis",@"Jeffery Francis",@"Eva Lawson",@"Emmett Santos", @"Theresa	Bryan", @"Jenny Fuller", @"Terrell Norris", @"Eric Wheeler", @"Julius Clayton", @"Alfredo Thornton", @"Roberto Romero",@"Orlando Mathis",@"Eduardo Thomas",@"Harry Douglas"];
    
    _dataSource = [[TKDataSource alloc] initWithArray:_sampleArrayOfStrings];
    
    TKListView *_listView = [[TKListView alloc] initWithFrame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40)];
    _listView.autoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleHeight;
    _listView.dataSource = _dataSource;
    _listView.allowsMultipleSelection = YES;
    _listView.allowsCellReorder = YES;
    [self.view addSubview:_listView];
}

```
```Swift
class ViewController: UIViewController {
    var dataSource: TKDataSource?
    var sampleArrayOfStrings: NSArray = []
    override func viewDidLoad() {
        super.viewDidLoad()
        self.sampleArrayOfStrings = ["Kristina Wolfe","Freda Curtis","Jeffery Francis","Eva Lawson","Emmett Santos", "Theresa Bryan", "Jenny Fuller", "Terrell Norris", "Eric Wheeler", "Julius Clayton", "Alfredo Thornton", "Roberto Romero","Orlando Mathis","Eduardo Thomas","Harry Douglas"]
        dataSource = TKDataSource(array:sampleArrayOfStrings)
        let listView = TKListView(frame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40))
        listView.dataSource = dataSource
        listView.allowsMultipleSelection = true
        listView.allowsCellReorder = true;
        self.view.addSubview(listView)
    }
}
```
```C#

TKListView listView = new TKListView();
	public override void ViewDidLoad ()
		{
			base.ViewDidLoad ();
			NSString[] simpleArrayOfStrings = new NSString[] { new NSString("Kristina Wolfe"),
				new NSString("Freda Curtis"),
				new NSString("Jeffery Francis"),
				new NSString("Eva Lawson"),
				new NSString("Emmett Santos"), 
				new NSString("Theresa Bryan"), 
				new NSString("Jenny Fuller"), 
				new NSString("Terrell Norris"),
				new NSString("Eric Wheeler"), 
				new NSString("Julius Clayton"), 
				new NSString("Alfredo Thornton"), 
				new NSString("Roberto Romero"),
				new NSString("Orlando Mathis"),
				new NSString("Eduardo Thomas"),
				new NSString("Harry Douglas")
			};
			TKDataSource dataSource = new TKDataSource(simpleArrayOfStrings);
			listView.Frame = new CGRect (20, 20, this.View.Bounds.Size.Width-40,this.View.Bounds.Size.Height-40);
			this.listView.AutoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleHeight;
			this.listView.WeakDataSource = dataSource;
			this.listView.AllowsMultipleSelection = true;
			this.listView.AllowsCellReorder = true;
			this.View.AddSubview(this.listView);
		}
		
```

Commit message:

Updated the documentation because of Xcode 6 precompiled headers file changes

Listview/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: ListView Getting Started
position: 2
---

# ListView: Getting Started

This quick start tutorial demonstrates how to create a simple iOS application with <code>TKListView</code>.



## Prerequisites

In order to start using <code>TKListView</code>, you have first to install the latest version Telerik UI for iOS. You can download it from: [http://www.telerik.com/download/ios-ui](http://www.telerik.com/download/ios-ui). The file that you should download is the installation package - Telerik UI for iOS.pkg. Just double click the package icon and the installer will guide you trough the installation process. When done, it will open the newly created folder in your Documents folder. This folder contains everything necessary in order to start using <code>TKListView</code>.

<img src="../images/chart-overview003.png"/>

## Setting up the project

After installing Telerik UI, you can proceed with the following steps:

<ol>
    <li>Open Xcode and choose <i>"Create a new Xcode project"</i>.</li>
    <li>Choose <i>"Single View Application"</i> from the <i>"Choose a template for your new project"</i> dialog.</li>
    <li>Give your project a name and click <i>Next</i>.</li>
    <li>Complete the process of creating a project by specifying the location for your project and clicking <i>Create</i>.</li>
    <li>Scroll down to the <i>Linked Frameworks and Libraries</i> section in your project settings and click on the <i>"+"</i> button. <br/>
    <img src="../images/chart-overview004.png"/></li>
    <li>Type <i>telerik</i> in the popup, select the <i>TelerikUI.framework</i> and click <i>Add</i>. <br/>
    <img src="../images/chart-overview005.png"/></li>
    <li>This is it, now you are ready to start working with Telerik Chart.</li>
</ol>

## Setting up TKListView

Now that our project is created and the TelerikUI.framework is added, we can start referencing and using the TelerikUI types:

Open your <code>ViewController.m</code> file and add a reference to Telerik UI header file:

    #import <TelerikUI/TelerikUI.h>

Note that starting with Xcode 6 Apple doesn't generate the precompiled headers file automatically. That is why you should add references to Foundation and UIKit frameworks before importing TelerikUI:

    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    #import <UIKit/UIKit.h>

If you are writing Swift, add the same line in your bridging header.

In the <code>viewDidLoad</code> method of your view controller prepare a small array of sample data to be presented in <code>TKListView</code>. 

```Objective-C
[super viewDidLoad];

_sampleArrayOfStrings =@[@"Kristina Wolfe",@"Freda Curtis",@"Jeffery Francis",@"Eva Lawson",@"Emmett Santos", @"Theresa	Bryan", @"Jenny Fuller", @"Terrell Norris", @"Eric Wheeler", @"Julius Clayton", @"Alfredo Thornton", @"Roberto Romero",@"Orlando Mathis",@"Eduardo Thomas",@"Harry Douglas"];
    
```
```Swift
super.viewDidLoad()

self.sampleArrayOfStrings = ["Kristina Wolfe","Freda Curtis","Jeffery Francis","Eva Lawson","Emmett Santos", "Theresa Bryan", "Jenny Fuller", "Terrell Norris", "Eric Wheeler", "Julius Clayton", "Alfredo Thornton", "Roberto Romero","Orlando Mathis","Eduardo Thomas","Harry Douglas"]
        
```
```C#
base.ViewDidLoad();

NSString[] simpleArrayOfStrings = new NSString[] { new NSString("Kristina Wolfe"),
	new NSString("Freda Curtis"),
	new NSString("Jeffery Francis"),
	new NSString("Eva Lawson"),
	new NSString("Emmett Santos"), 
	new NSString("Theresa Bryan"), 
	new NSString("Jenny Fuller"), 
	new NSString("Terrell Norris"),
	new NSString("Eric Wheeler"), 
	new NSString("Julius Clayton"), 
	new NSString("Alfredo Thornton"), 
	new NSString("Roberto Romero"),
	new NSString("Orlando Mathis"),
	new NSString("Eduardo Thomas"),
	new NSString("Harry Douglas")
};
			
```

Next, create an instance of [<code>TKDataSource<code>](../datasource/getting-started). This components is used to feed our data to <code>TKListView</code>. 

```Objective-C
_dataSource = [[TKDataSource alloc] initWithArray:_sampleArrayOfStrings];
```
```Swift
dataSource = TKDataSource(array:sampleArrayOfStrings)
```
```C#
TKDataSource dataSource = new TKDataSource(simpleArrayOfStrings);
```

Then create a new instance of <code>TKListView</code> and add it as a subview of the ViewController's main view. The <code>autoresizingMask</code> property is set in order to allow correct resizing of the list view when the device is rotated in landscape mode. 

```Objective-C
TKListView *_listView = [[TKListView alloc] initWithFrame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40)];
_listView.autoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleHeight;
_listView.dataSource = _dataSource;
[self.view addSubview:_listView];
```
```Swift
let listView = TKListView(frame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40))
listView.dataSource = dataSource
self.view.addSubview(listView)
```
```C#
listView.Frame = new CGRect (20, 20, this.View.Bounds.Size.Width-40,this.View.Bounds.Size.Height-40);
this.listView.AutoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleHeight;
this.listView.WeakDataSource = dataSource;
this.View.AddSubview(this.listView);			
```

So far we have got the following view: 

<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted001.png"/>

Now lets enable multiple selection: 

```Objective-C
_listView.allowsMultipleSelection = YES;
```
```Swift
listView.allowsMultipleSelection = true
```
```C#
this.listView.AllowsMultipleSelection = true;
```

To see the result, after running this sample, select to select a few items:
<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted002.png"/>


Adding a single line of code should allow the user to reorder items by dragging a handle.

```Objective-C
_listView.allowsCellReorder = YES;
```
```Swift
listView.allowsCellReorder = true;
```
```C#
this.listView.AllowsCellReorder = true;
```

<img src="../images/listview-gettingstarted003.png"/>

And here is the full code of our view controller 

```Objective-C
#import "ViewController.h"
#import <TelerikUI/TelerikUI.h>

@implementation ViewController
{
    NSArray *_sampleArrayOfStrings;
    TKDataSource *_dataSource;
}
- (void)viewDidLoad
{
    [super viewDidLoad];
    
    _sampleArrayOfStrings =@[@"Kristina Wolfe",@"Freda Curtis",@"Jeffery Francis",@"Eva Lawson",@"Emmett Santos", @"Theresa	Bryan", @"Jenny Fuller", @"Terrell Norris", @"Eric Wheeler", @"Julius Clayton", @"Alfredo Thornton", @"Roberto Romero",@"Orlando Mathis",@"Eduardo Thomas",@"Harry Douglas"];
    
    _dataSource = [[TKDataSource alloc] initWithArray:_sampleArrayOfStrings];
    
    TKListView *_listView = [[TKListView alloc] initWithFrame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40)];
    _listView.autoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizingFlexibleHeight;
    _listView.dataSource = _dataSource;
    _listView.allowsMultipleSelection = YES;
    _listView.allowsCellReorder = YES;
    [self.view addSubview:_listView];
}

```
```Swift
class ViewController: UIViewController {
    var dataSource: TKDataSource?
    var sampleArrayOfStrings: NSArray = []
    override func viewDidLoad() {
        super.viewDidLoad()
        self.sampleArrayOfStrings = ["Kristina Wolfe","Freda Curtis","Jeffery Francis","Eva Lawson","Emmett Santos", "Theresa Bryan", "Jenny Fuller", "Terrell Norris", "Eric Wheeler", "Julius Clayton", "Alfredo Thornton", "Roberto Romero","Orlando Mathis","Eduardo Thomas","Harry Douglas"]
        dataSource = TKDataSource(array:sampleArrayOfStrings)
        let listView = TKListView(frame: CGRectMake(20, 20, self.view.bounds.size.width-40,self.view.bounds.size.height-40))
        listView.dataSource = dataSource
        listView.allowsMultipleSelection = true
        listView.allowsCellReorder = true;
        self.view.addSubview(listView)
    }
}
```
```C#

TKListView listView = new TKListView();
	public override void ViewDidLoad ()
		{
			base.ViewDidLoad ();
			NSString[] simpleArrayOfStrings = new NSString[] { new NSString("Kristina Wolfe"),
				new NSString("Freda Curtis"),
				new NSString("Jeffery Francis"),
				new NSString("Eva Lawson"),
				new NSString("Emmett Santos"), 
				new NSString("Theresa Bryan"), 
				new NSString("Jenny Fuller"), 
				new NSString("Terrell Norris"),
				new NSString("Eric Wheeler"), 
				new NSString("Julius Clayton"), 
				new NSString("Alfredo Thornton"), 
				new NSString("Roberto Romero"),
				new NSString("Orlando Mathis"),
				new NSString("Eduardo Thomas"),
				new NSString("Harry Douglas")
			};
			TKDataSource dataSource = new TKDataSource(simpleArrayOfStrings);
			listView.Frame = new CGRect (20, 20, this.View.Bounds.Size.Width-40,this.View.Bounds.Size.Height-40);
			this.listView.AutoresizingMask = UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleWidth | UIViewAutoresizing.FlexibleHeight;
			this.listView.WeakDataSource = dataSource;
			this.listView.AllowsMultipleSelection = true;
			this.listView.AllowsCellReorder = true;
			this.View.AddSubview(this.listView);
		}
		
```
